[Documentation]Take your application to production (#349)
dotnet/spark: docs/take-to-prod.md

> Taking your .NET for Apache Spark Application to Production

Author: comments from @suhsteve  "This title somehow makes me feel like after reading this I will know how to make my spark application production ready. Is this the purpose of this document ? Or just to outline different spark-submit scenarios."

I believe the purpose of this doc should tell users how to move their application to production. I am thinking of putting different scenarios along with the instruction on how to move it to production based on these different scenarios. Any suggestions to make this doc more precise and explicit would be really appreciate.

===

# Table of Contents

> This how-to provides general instructions on how to take your .NET for Apache Spark application to production.

Author: Comments from @bamurtaugh : "What does it mean to take an app to production? Perhaps add a couple words/sentence defining that (does it just mean running on-prem? Deploying to cloud? Building and running `spark-submit`? CI/CD?)"

Great point! @rapoth Could you please help with elaborating this a little more?

In this documentation, we will summarize the most commonly asked scenarios when running a .NET for Apache Spark Application.
You will also learn how to package your application and submit your application with [spark-submit](https://spark.apache.org/docs/latest/submitting-applications.html) and [Apachy Livy](https://livy.incubator.apache.org/).
- [How to deploy your application when you have a single dependency](#how-to-deploy-your-application-when-you-have-a-single-dependency)
  - [Scenarios](#scenarios)
  - [Package your application](#package-your-application)
  - [Launch your application](#launch-your-application)
- [How to deploy your application when you have multiple dependencies](#how-to-deploy-your-application-when-you-have-multiple-dependencies)
  - [Scenarios](#scenarios-1)
  - [Package your application](#package-your-application-1)
  - [Launch your application](#launch-your-application-1)

> ## How to deploy your application when you have a single dependency

Author: comments from @bamurtaugh : "What does single dependency mean? I think it could help users to include a short explanation here or at the top of the document of what a dependency means in the .NET for Spark context."

Actually I am not so sure if we should use single dependency and multiple dependency to define and separate these scenarios. @rapoth and @imback82 any suggestions? Thanks.

### Scenarios

> #### 1. SparkSession code and business logic in the same Program.cs file

Author: @suhsteve I will keep the number here to make it more clear.

> This would be the simple use case when you have `SparkSession` code and business logic (UDFs) in the same Program.cs file and in the same project (e.g. mySparkApp.csproj).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `SparkSession` code and business logic (UDFs) are contained in the same `Program.cs` file and in the same project (e.g. mySparkApp.csproj).
```
If they are contained in the same Program.cs, then by definition wouldn't it be in the same project ?  I don't think you need to say "in the same project"

Author: I agree, I have removed "in the same project". Thanks!

#### 2. SparkSession code and business logic in the same project, but different .cs files

> This would be the use case when you have `SparkSession` code and business logic (UDFs) in the different .cs files but in the same project (e.g. SparkSession in Program.cs, business logic in BusinessLogic.cs and both are in mySparkApp.csproj).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `SparkSession` code and business logic (UDFs) are in different `.cs` files and both contained in the same project (e.g. SparkSession in Program.cs, business logic in BusinessLogic.cs and both are in mySparkApp.csproj).
```

> ### Package your application

Author: comments from @suhsteve "I don't know if this section is too useful."

I think it will be very helpful if we can put more detailed instruction here. Any suggestions?

Please follow [Get Started](https://github.com/dotnet/spark/#get-started) to build your application.

### Launch your application
#### 1. Using spark-submit
Please make sure you have [pre-requisites](https://github.com/dotnet/spark/blob/master/docs/getting-started/windows-instructions.md#pre-requisites) to run the following command.
```powershell
%SPARK_HOME%\bin\spark-submit \
--class org.apache.spark.deploy.dotnet.DotnetRunner \
--master yarn \
--deploy-mode cluster \
--files <some dir>\<dotnet version>\mySparkApp.dll \
<some dir>\<dotnet version>\microsoft-spark-<spark_majorversion.spark_minorversion.x>-<spark_dotnet_version>.jar \

> dotnet <some dir>\<dotnet version>\mySparkApp.dll <app arg 1> <app arg 2> ... <app arg n>

Reviewer: `dotnet` is used in this example, but won't this fail in user scenarios where `dotnet` may not be available on their cluster ?

Author: Yes I agree, but I have put [pre-requisites ](https://github.com/dotnet/spark/blob/master/docs/getting-started/windows-instructions.md#pre-requisites) in this example.

Or we can also put an example like `mySparkApp args` or `dotnet mySparkApp.dll args` which gives both options depending on cluster environment.

```
#### 2. Using Apache Livy
```shell
{
    "file": "adl://<cluster name>.azuredatalakestore.net/<some dir>/microsoft-spark-<spark_majorversion.spark_minorversion.x>-<spark_dotnet_version>.jar",
    "className": "org.apache.spark.deploy.dotnet.DotnetRunner",
    "files": [“adl://<cluster name>.azuredatalakestore.net/<some dir>/mySparkApp.dll" ],
    "args": ["dotnet","adl://<cluster name>.azuredatalakestore.net/<some dir>/mySparkApp.dll","<app arg 1>","<app arg 2>,"...","<app arg n>"]
}
```

## How to deploy your application when you have multiple dependencies
### Scenarios
#### 1. SparkSession code in one project that references another project including the business logic

> This would be the use case when you have `SparkSession` code in one project (e.g. mySparkApp.csproj) and business logic (UDFs) in another project (e.g. businessLogic.csproj).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `SparkSession` code in one project (e.g. mySparkApp.csproj) and business logic (UDFs) in another project (e.g. businessLogic.csproj).
```

#### 2. SparkSession code references a function from a Nuget package that has been installed in the csproj

> This would be the use case when `SparkSession` code references a function from a Nuget package in the same project (e.g. mySparkApp.csproj).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `SparkSession` code references a function from a Nuget package.
```

#### 3. SparkSession code references a function from a DLL on the user's machine

> This would be the use case when `SparkSession` code reference business logic (UDFs) on the user's machine (e.g. `SparkSession` code in the mySparkApp.csproj and businessLogic.dll on a different machine). 

Author: comments from @suhsteve :"Why does businessLogic.dll be from a different machine ?"

This would be one of the scenarios, wouldn't it?

Reviewer: It may make more sense if this scenario if the description was something like loading assemblies dynamically at runtime.

Author: Got it, but I am wondering how can we structure the description of this scenario to be more explainable to users?

> This would be the use case when `SparkSession` code reference business logic (UDFs) on the user's machine (e.g. `SparkSession` code in the mySparkApp.csproj and businessLogic.dll on a different machine). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `SparkSession` code reference business logic (UDFs) on the user's machine (e.g. `SparkSession` code in the mySparkApp.csproj and businessLogic.dll on a different machine). 
```

--master yarn \
--deploy-mode cluster \
--conf spark.yarn.appMasterEnv.DOTNET_ASSEMBLY_SEARCH_PATHS=./udfs \
--conf spark.yarn.appMasterEnv.DOTNET_ASSEMBLY_SEARCH_PATHS=./myLibraries.zip \
--archives hdfs://<path to your files>/businessLogics.zip#udfs,hdfs://<path to your files>/myLibraries.zip \
hdfs://<path to jar file>/microsoft-spark-<spark_majorversion.spark_minorversion.x>-<spark_dotnet_version>.jar \
hdfs://<path to your files>/mySparkApp.zip mySparkApp <app arg 1> <app arg 2> ... <app arg n>
```
#### 2. Using Apache Livy
```shell
{
    "file": "adl://<cluster name>.azuredatalakestore.net/<some dir>/microsoft-spark-<spark_majorversion.spark_minorversion.x>-<spark_dotnet_version>.jar",
    "className": "org.apache.spark.deploy.dotnet.DotnetRunner",
    "conf": {"spark.yarn.appMasterEnv.DOTNET_ASSEMBLY_SEARCH_PATHS": "./udfs, ./myLibraries.zip"},
    "archives": ["adl://<cluster name>.azuredatalakestore.net/<some dir>/businessLogics.zip#udfs”, "adl://<cluster name>.azuredatalakestore.net/<some dir>/myLibraries.zip”],
    "args": ["adl://<cluster name>.azuredatalakestore.net/<some dir>/mySparkApp.zip","mySparkApp","<app arg 1>","<app arg 2>,"...","<app arg n>"]
}

> ```

Reviewer: You should say somewhere that scenarios 1 and 2 can also be submitted using these submission examples.

Author: Do you mean scenarios 1 and 2 in single dependency session?
They can submit it using the example here, but they have to zip single dll first, would like be more  work for user in such case? How about we specify the another example usage of `mySparkApp args` as I mentioned earlier?

Reviewer: If users are manually submitting then yes, but in "production" use, users would most likely automate the packaging and submission.  It would be good to know that they don't have to take different steps if they have single vs multiple dependencies.

Author: If we would like to unify these two sections, should we remove the command example in the first section?

I just feel like we need to add more contexts in this whole instruction in general, any suggestions would be really appreciated.
